I'm Claire Richards and thank you so
much for joining us the Rafa border
crossing between Egypt and Gaza has
reopened for humanitarian Aid and
vehicles are entering the Palestinian
territory with vital
supplies now this footage is from the
Egyptian side of the Rafa Crossing which
is the only entry point into the
territory from outside Israel The
Crossing has reopened in the past hour
and a humanitarian Aid Convoy has
reportedly entered into Gaza carrying
food F water and Medicine foreigners
who've been waiting to leave The Enclave
have also gathered at the border it is
not known how long the crossing will
remain
open let's speak to journalist kareim
alari from Cairo kareim the Rafa border
crossing has been reopened can you tell
us what this will mean for Vital Aid
reaching people in
Gaza well uh in your moderation you
forgot one vital detail and that is that
they only allowed 20 trucks uh to come
in this is the agreement until now uh it
seems like the trucks already entered on
the other side are now unloaded with
fork lifters onto smaller trucks within
the Gaza Strip to then be distributed
but we're talking here about 20 trucks
for
2.3 million people uh relief agencies
already said that this is a drop in the
ocean you need to know that the UN is
saying that it needs about
100 trucks a day in order to keep bring
the most necessary items into the Gaza
Strip uh before the war um there was
already an Israeli blockade a limited
blockade where there there were 450
trucks coming every day to Gaza so just
you understand the relationship of 20
trucks this is why now the the moment
the first 20 trucks entered the
discussion started that of course there
needs to be a more sustainable and uh
amount and bigger amount of of Aid
that's coming in as you said mentioned
there is hundreds of trucks waiting on
the other side of the Egypt side in
order to enter But there until now is no
agreement between Egypt and Israel about
further Aid coming in I just want to let
our viewers know you are looking at live
footage there um of trucks that are
going to be delivering that Aid I want
to ask you know if this is such a small
amount of what is needed to provide
humanitarian assistance why has it taken
so long for it to get across this border
crossing
because there was discussions mainly
between Egypt and Israel Egypt wanted to
have a bigger amount of Aid coming in
and also it's a question of what what is
coming in Israel is only right now
allowing food
medicine and uh uh water supplies uh the
one of the crucial things here is fuel
um for give you an example in order to
run the water pumps in Gaza order for
water to come to the houses that needs
fuel right now we have a situation like
in average a human being needs about a
100 liters of water a day for its normal
needs of drinking cooking uh sanitation
hygiene right now the people in Gaza
have an average of three liters a day so
one of the items that are under
discussions for example is fuel to come
in and the UN is pressuring the
Egyptians are pressuring that that be
possible so this border opening clearly
has implications for Aid coming in I'm
curious about what can come out what
about foreign passport holders uh
thousands of them have been waiting to
leave Gaza are they going to be able to
get across this border
crossing that remains to be seen I mean
it was like in the last days when the
discussions were going on between Egypt
the UN Hamas and Israel Egypt tried to
link the two issues they say like
because originally it was only foreign
people with foreign passports leaving
the Gaza Strip then Egypt said they only
opening the Border if that's linked to
uh Eight coming in and now as eight
coming in it should be that uh it also
will there will be some movement from
the other side out of the Gaza Strip but
until now nothing happened except that
people gathered along on the Palestinian
sides in with foreign passports in order
to leave well thank you so much for
bringing us up to speed with the latest
there that is kareim goari a journalist
reporting from Egypt's capital
Cairo you're
wome